# Automation-in-Agriculture-using-IoT-
This project involves both TCP, UDP protocols. There are three main features. 1)Automation of water supply to the crop according to the moisture level in the soil. 2)Controlling of Water supply globally using internet. 3)Monitoring of moisture level over the internet. In the field there are one central node and more sensor nodes, all these nodes are connected over the local Wi-Fi network which is created by the central node, The central node plays a key role in this project, for receiving data from the sensor nodes as it is configured as UDP Server, for monitoring and controlling over the internet it will be configured as TCP client, it will switch between these two modes over a time period .  All sensor nodes will fetch the data from the moisture sensor for every 30 min, and  sent to the central node @ UDP Server configuration, which is placed at the solenoid valve (Electronic valve) and went to the sleeping mode(to decrease the power consumption). According to the moisture level solenoid valve will release the water. Then after Central node will switch to the TCP Client mode and connect to the predefined external Wi-Fi for internet access if it is active if it is not active redirect to the UDP Server mode. If the connection is present, all sensor’s moisture values are uploaded to the Thingspeak IoT platform for monitoring purpose and it will wait for the request from the webpage which is designed for the manual controlling purpose. If the request comes then it will perform the action. After some time period it will switch to the UDP server mode and the process will be continued.
